# Artifact-Repository-of-a-Quarter-Long-Internship-with-the-Pacific-Northwest-Railway-Archive

**NOTE: Each of the weekly journal posts may be found in this README.md markdown file. The remainder of the quarterly projects (five assignments in total) may be found within the "Assigned Coursework" file within this repository. Assignment five contains images of the products of my work with my host organization, and each of the other projects relate to my student progress through the quarter.** 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Week One Reflections and Summary: Dated 10/06/2023**

***The following log documents my journey through the UW iSchool's course LIS 590A: Directed Fieldwork, instructed by Helene Williams. This course requires students to find a host site (person or organization) willing to provide training in exchange for student contribution towards larger projects or goals. In my case, I have partnered with Dean O'Neill and the Pacific Northwest Railway Archive in Burien, where I currently live. This Autumn Quarter, I will learn how to digitize and preserve archived materials such as maps, develop superior finding aids and standards of cataloging, integrate data in .XSLX files, and work with various scans, negatives, and prints. Above all, I anticipate the development of my sense of agency in managing a diverse set of materials, based on prior coursework I have taken at UW: such as Intro to XML, Organization of Information and Resources, and Data Curation. My experience with scanners and their associated software is low, but my comfort with Excel is 'off the charts', so to speak. With Dean's guidance, I hope that I will accomplish the work of a fully-fledged information professional***

***My AToM training began last Tuesday, 09/26/2023, ten days after the PNRA's conference in Tacoma had ended. Regrettably, I was not able to attend because of a birthday celebration, but heading into the archive I heard so many great things about the presentations. What struck me at first was the care put into the organization's headquarters. There were paintings of steam engines, wooden hoops for the delivery of orders to the conductor, various glass lamps in different shades, and thematic calendars across the walls with various native tribes portrayed on the front. Dean showed me to the office first, where I met my colleage Alex, who attends University of Denver. After a chat about how our days would proceed, I was left to speak with Virginia about my status as an intern. She offered me two books to read about millenials in museums and women on the railroad. Then, Dean took me downtairs into the library, a great room of sliding shelves recovered from a hospital, similar to the archives at UW. He explained the cataloging system, introduced the computer systems and hard drives, and ushered us into a small library. There, it was explained that an excess of donations of unrelated subjects are regularly donated to the various Rail History Organizations, of which there are five, pertaining to separate regions of the country. I was truly amazed at how much goes on in such a small space.***

***While Alex briefed me on the file naming conventions and I browsed the PNRA's digitization standards manual, Dean began scanning maps with another senior volunteer. My usual chatty self began speaking to the adult members of the group and found the oldest to have been a telegrapher at my age. Another invited me to join his HAM radio club, and another explained to me the history of AOL. As an anthropology major, I was delighted to meet these people and hear their stories. I went home at 4:00, after fussing with the scanners with Dean and scrolling up maps of Redmond and Tacoma.***

***Unforunately, the following Monday I contracted the Eris variant of COVID-19, and fell extremely ill. Although I was sleeping some 20 hours a day, Dean kindly offered me a portable hard drive to work from home, correcting outdated PNRA map file scan names. He has been such a positive influence on me this quarter, as has Alex, and both are my motivators. When I return on Tuesday to complete my Learning Outcomes Agreement with Dean (a little late, thanks to COVID), I should surely let them know.***

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Week Two Reflections and Summary: Dated 10/09/2023**

***My work for weeks two and three will be conducted at home using the aforementioned hard drive. My condition is improving, but I can't risk endangering any of the other volunteers with this illness. So far, that work from home process has involved updating the names of maps from Washington and Idaho. The digitization standards of the PNRA are constantly evolving, so I am shifting dashes to underscores and commas to plain text in order to keep with the times.***

***For a while, I was incredibly sick and completely incapacitated, but as the days progress I have more energy for working. It's frustraing to feel stuck, but I am thankful for the generosity of the archive in giving me something purposeful to do with the time I spend at home.***

***When I return, masked up this coming Thursday the 12th, I will launch into developing my LOA with my supervisor Dean, breaking down the tasks I want to pursue this quarter in detail, and recieving an in-depth tour of the prints and negatives by a specialist just one week later. It's a dynamic time for me, just starting out, and the hours lost will be easily replaced once I hone my faocus with Dean. Also, I am attempting to arrange a capstone project in partnership with the PNRA anyhow, so I'm still working through the recommended literature in time for my return to the archive.***

***For now, I am trapped at home, but the upside is that I am becoming very comfortable with renaming files according to internal standards, and troubleshooting with my supervisor where issues occur. By Thursday, I should have more to say on this matter.***

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
